doors, where my heart was used to beat	iambic.tetra
amazed, amazed, amazed, amazed.	iambic.tetra
generations have trod, have trod, have trod;	iambic.penta
that they will be over and done	iambic.tri
with craft of delight and with cunning of sound unsought,	chol.iamb
the pallor of girls' brows shall be their pall;	iambic.penta
for-- heft them-- pound for pound--	iambic.tri
and wears man's smudge and shares man's smell: the soil	iambic.penta
she took me to her elfin grot,	iambic.tetra
my god and love thee so.	iambic.tri
and bugles calling for them from sad shires.	iambic.penta
nor less, when spring had warmed the cultured vale,	iambic.penta
then die! that she	iambic.di
in sundry moods, 'twas pastime to be bound	iambic.penta
bare ruined choirs, where late the sweet birds sang.	iambic.penta
'tis not enough no harshness gives offence,	iambic.penta
press'd her cold finger closer to her lips.	iambic.penta
toil and grow rich,	chol.iamb
lovers can see to do their amorous rites	iambic.penta
so love's inflamèd shaft or brand	iambic.tetra
with walls and towers were girdled round:	iambic.tetra
thou art more lovely and more temperate:	iambic.penta
the brain--is wider than the sky	iambic.tetra
and i awoke and found me here	iambic.tetra
the touch of earthly years.	iambic.tri
if someone said on christmas eve,	iambic.tetra
"they cried, ""la belle dame sans merci"	iambic.tetra
and very few to love.	iambic.tri
which yet survive, stamped on these lifeless things,	iambic.penta
whilst, burning through the inmost veil of heaven,	iambic.penta
and wrinkled lip, and sneer of cold command,	iambic.penta
as sponges-- buckets-- do--	iambic.tri
and layes the soule to sleepe in quiet graue?	iambic.penta
till you have drenched our steeples, drowned the cocks.	iambic.penta
a mighty fountain momently was forced:	iambic.penta
by chance or nature's changing course untrimmed;	iambic.penta
and all the pavement streamed with massacre.	iambic.penta
and so live ever--or else swoon to death.	iambic.penta
in what distant deeps or skies	iambic.tetra
may no lines pass, except they do their duty	iambic.penta
thou must have uncommended died.	iambic.tetra
stirred for a bird,-- the achieve of, the mastery of the thing!	iambic.penta
our revels now are ended. these our actors,	iambic.penta
come back in tears,	iambic.di
where my sun-flower wishes to go.	chol.iamb
to serve therewith my maker, and present	iambic.penta
now all the truth is out,	iambic.tri
go, lovely rose!	iambic.di
behold me, for i cannot sleep,	iambic.tetra
that i may rise and stand, o'erthrow me and bend	iambic.penta
as sunlight on a stream;	iambic.tri
as i feel now, lost forever!	troch.tetra
riddle who list, for me, and pull for prime;	iambic.penta
bear his mild yoke, they serve him best. his state	iambic.penta
or is it only the breeze, in its listlessness	chol.iamb
his overcoat for ever,	iambic.tri
and honey wild and manna-dew;	iambic.tetra
ere half my days, in this dark world and wide,	iambic.penta
the vorpal blade went snicker-snack!	iambic.tetra
how dick would hate the cold.	iambic.tri
which from his darksome passage now appears,	iambic.penta
he left it dead, and with its head	iambic.tetra
where the green swell is in the havens dumb,	iambic.penta
dom of daylight's dauphin, dapple-dawn-drawn falcon, in his riding	iambic.penta
a sunny pleasure-dome with caves of ice!	iambic.penta
full beautiful-- a faery's child,	iambic.tetra
and country whereof here needs no account,	iambic.penta
enwrought with golden and silver light,	iambic.tetra
in beds and curious knots, but nature boon	iambic.penta
the lord shall raise me up, i trust.	iambic.tetra
"that murmur, soon replies, ""god doth not need"	iambic.penta
let us possess one world, each hath one, and is one.	alexandr.iambic.hexa
give me my romeo; and, when he shall die,	iambic.penta
if all would lead their lives in love like me,	iambic.penta
but thy voice sounds low and tender	troch.tetra
'twas so; but this, all pleasures fancies be.	iambic.penta
when a man hath no freedom to fight for at home,	chol.iamb
such terror, and my feeble flesh doth waste	iambic.penta
but with the swift alone.	iambic.tri
beside the springs of dove,	iambic.tri
enfolding sunny spots of greenery.	iambic.penta
nuns fret not at their convent's narrow room,	iambic.penta
when stretched in the harvest blue	iambic.tri
that with music loud and long,	iambic.tetra
whereon mad fingers play	iambic.tri
as the radiant lines of morning	troch.tetra
winnow with giant arms the slumbering green.	iambic.penta
love so alike that none do slacken, none can die.	alexandr.iambic.hexa
too much alike to mark or name a place by	iambic.penta
and there were gardens bright with sinuous rills,	iambic.penta
prompt hand and headpiece clever,	iambic.tri
into their west, and straight again revive,	iambic.penta
whitening for half a league, and thin themselves,	iambic.penta
featured like him, like him with friends possessed,	iambic.penta
by thy leave i can look, i rise again;	iambic.penta
riddled with light. ah! when the ghost begins to quicken,	alexandr.iambic.hexa
about his shadowy sides: above him swell	iambic.penta
what held it though on one side was a tree	iambic.penta
ancestral voices prophesying war!	iambic.penta
and high in heaven behind it a gray down	iambic.penta
whose sails were never to the tempest given;	iambic.penta
and from this chasm, with ceaseless turmoil seething,	iambic.penta
the hard snow held me, save where now and then	iambic.penta
shepherds are honest people; let them sing:	iambic.penta
but ill sustained, and almost (so it seemed)	iambic.penta
tyger! tyger! burning bright	iambic.tetra
i met a traveller from an antique land,	iambic.penta
"i paused and said, ""i will turn back from here."	iambic.penta
and chiefly i remember	iambic.tri
and the pale virgin shrouded in snow,	chol.iamb
consumed with that which it was nourished by.	iambic.penta
like nature's patient, sleepless eremite,	iambic.penta
give me the lowest place: not that i dare	iambic.penta
and no birds sing.	iambic.di
how from that sapphire fount the crisped brooks,	iambic.penta
if you be pleased, retire into my cell	iambic.penta
times told lovelier, more dangerous, omy chevalier!	iambic.penta
when i resemble her to thee,	iambic.tetra
take me to you, imprison me, for i,	iambic.penta
your neck turned so,	iambic.di
i must not think of thee; and, tired yet strong,	iambic.penta
who countest the steps of the sun,	chol.iamb
what was it it whispered? i knew not well myself;	iambic.penta
but oh! that deep romantic chasm which slanted	iambic.penta
dare frame thy fearful symmetry?	iambic.tetra
i set her on my pacing steed,	iambic.tetra
but am betrothed unto your enemy.	iambic.penta
spreading a shade: the naiad mid her reeds	iambic.penta
from long to long in solemn sort.	iambic.tetra
as if this earth in fast thick pants were breathing,	iambic.penta
brute beauty and vallour and act,oh, air, pride,plume, here	iambic.penta
and summer's lease hath all too short a date;	iambic.penta
yet in these thoughts myself almost despising,	iambic.penta
into its narrow shed.	iambic.tri
rolling on orient pearl and sands of gold,	iambic.penta
what dread hand? & what dread feet?	iambic.tetra
i all alone beweep my outcast state,	iambic.penta
from sullen earth, sings hymns at heaven's gate;	iambic.penta
down the steep glade, and met the nether flood,	iambic.penta
is it no verse, except enchanted groves	iambic.penta
which through the web of being blindly wove	iambic.penta
suddenly i saw the cold and rook-delighting heaven	alexandr.iambic.hexa
and arthur deigned not use of word or sword,	iambic.penta
nor let them punish me with loss of rhyme,	iambic.penta
the love of thee--and in the blue heaven's height,	iambic.penta
not to a true, but painted chair?	iambic.tetra
rebuffed the big wind. my heart in hiding	iambic.penta
the night is freezing fast,	iambic.tri
nothing beside remains. round the decay	iambic.penta
to fields where flies no sharp and sided hail	iambic.penta
and no birds sing.	iambic.di
now if thou wouldst, when all have given him over,	iambic.penta
far from the shore, far from the trembling throng	iambic.penta
this thou perceiv'st, which makes thy love more strong,	iambic.penta
i strove with none, for none was worth my strife:	iambic.penta
one, two! one, two! and through and through	iambic.tetra
an elder said as we sat in a flock	iambic.tetra
the hoarse, rough verse shou'd like the torrent roar.	iambic.penta
and nothing else saw all day long	iambic.tetra
"""come; see the oxen kneel"	iambic.tri
bring the balloon of the mind,	iambic.tri
draw the huge bottoms through the furrowed sea,	iambic.penta
a slumber did my spirit seal;	iambic.tetra
shine, and blue-bleak embers, ahmy dear,	iambic.penta
that i might live and share	iambic.tri
in what furnace was thy brain?	iambic.tetra
oh, just beyond the sweetest thoughts that throng	iambic.penta
with how sad steps, o moone, thou climb'st the skies,	iambic.penta
upon the hempen tackle shipboys climbing:	iambic.penta
pleased if some souls (for such there needs must be)	iambic.penta
all mimsy were the borogoves,	iambic.tetra
the white one in his tail; like one who takes	iambic.penta
small is the worth	iambic.di
and there she lullèd me asleep,	iambic.tetra
than that of thought. suppose that you have seen	iambic.penta
but as at first, when our day was fair.	chol.iamb
the tables over and the wines, and slew	iambic.penta
now lending splendour, where from secret springs	iambic.penta
'twas brillig, and the slithy toves	iambic.tetra
anything more than the truth would have seemed too weak	iambic.penta
a stately pleasure dome decree:	iambic.tetra
and after, drained dry,	chol.iamb
i caught this morning morning's minion, king-	iambic.penta
how sweet and fair she seems to be.	iambic.tetra
but when loud surges lash the sounding shore,	iambic.penta
dizzy, lost, yet unbewailing!	troch.tetra
that beauty in which all things work and move,	iambic.penta
a roundel is wrought.	chol.iamb
and though the sager sort our deeds reprove,	iambic.penta
when, his pulse failing, passion speechless lies,	iambic.penta
long time the manxome foe he sought-	iambic.tetra
and happie ease, which thou doest want and craue,	iambic.penta
their flowers the tenderness of patient minds,	iambic.penta
i forgot him and let his little fear	iambic.penta
and now divided into four main streams,	iambic.penta
that benediction which the eclipsing curse	iambic.penta
something, perhaps, about the lack of sound--	iambic.penta
and innocence is closing up his eyes,	iambic.penta
where woods and winds contend, and a vast river	iambic.penta
and songless plover,	iambic.di
he took his vorpal sword in hand:	iambic.tetra
no runner tracks in this year's snow looped near it.	iambic.penta
as those move easiest who have learn'd to dance.	iambic.penta
in xanadu did kubla khan	iambic.tetra
here in the long unlovely street,	iambic.tetra
again it is due?	iambic.di
with other things i but fear	iambic.tri
where waterfalls around it leap for ever,	iambic.penta
"the frumious bandersnatch!"""	iambic.tri
nor any voice of mourning save the choirs,--	iambic.penta
it flung up momently the sacred river.	iambic.penta
so that i fear they do but bring	iambic.tetra
o memory, hope and love of finished years.	iambic.penta
yet sing and chatter	iambic.di
come in the speaking silence of a dream;	iambic.penta
look on my works, ye mighty, and despair!	iambic.penta
and, like this insubstantial pageant faded,	iambic.penta
who plainly say, my god, my king.	iambic.tetra
did, till we loved: were we not weaned till then?	iambic.penta
and if not shot or hanged you'll get knighted.	chol.iamb
and in the dearest passage of a song.	iambic.penta
the shadow of the dome of pleasure	iambic.tetra
because the holy ghost over the bent	iambic.penta
tell her that's young	iambic.di
that runaways' eyes may wink, and romeo	iambic.penta
and seek with pain their ever-during night.	iambic.penta
dark house, by which once more i stand	iambic.tetra
for love, all love of other sights controls,	iambic.penta
in me thou seest the glowing of such fire,	iambic.penta
the well-appointed king at hampton pier	iambic.penta
which watch not one another out of fear;	iambic.penta
tyger! tyger! burning bright	iambic.tetra
that is most difficult.	iambic.tri
my face in thine eye, thine in mine appears,	iambic.penta
must all be veiled, while he that reads, divines,	iambic.penta
that flies in the night	chol.iamb
ourselves, no prison is: and hence for me,	iambic.penta
i made a garland for her head,	iambic.tetra
then once by man and angels to be seen,	iambic.penta
alone and palely loitering,	iambic.tetra
and sank his head in mire, and slimed themselves:	iambic.penta
forest on forest hung above his head	iambic.penta
only thou art above, and when towards thee	iambic.penta
thus with imagined wing our swift scene flies,	iambic.penta
that bellies and drags in the wind,	iambic.tri
for so appears this fleet majestical,	iambic.penta
bright star, would i were steadfast as thou art--	iambic.penta
and stood awhile in thought.	iambic.tri
can patter out their hasty orisons.	iambic.penta
and sank in tumult to a lifeless ocean:	iambic.penta
hood my unmanned blood, bating in my cheeks,	iambic.penta
nor heard the king for their own cries, but sprang	iambic.penta
by woman wailing for her demon-lover!	iambic.penta
and when we meet at any time again,	iambic.penta
by man and beast and earth and air and sea,	iambic.penta
a roundel is wrought.	chol.iamb
that thus so cleanly i myself can free;	iambic.penta
shrouds thee wheresoe'er thou shinest.	troch.tetra
like cloud on cloud. no stir of air was there,	iambic.penta
now at the last gasp of love's latest breath	iambic.penta
huge sponges of millennial growth and height;	iambic.penta
i saw their starved lips in the gloam	iambic.tetra
i reade it in thy lookes, thy languisht grace,	iambic.penta
because she thinks death can divide	iambic.tetra
why wilt not let him pass, that long hath stood	iambic.penta
he there does now enjoy eternall rest	iambic.penta
to feel for ever its soft fall and swell,	iambic.penta
and for all this, nature is never spent;	iambic.penta
"my heart had shrunk as thin!"""	iambic.tri
the line too labours, and the words move slow;	iambic.penta
that we sit sometimes in the wayside nook,	iambic.tetra
pillow'd upon my fair love's ripening breast,	iambic.penta
being honour bred, with one	iambic.tri
o how that glittering taketh me!	iambic.tetra
beware the jubjub bird, and shun	iambic.tetra
shall shine the holy glimmers of goodbyes.	iambic.penta
most enuious man, that grieues at neighbours good,	iambic.penta
could frame thy fearful symmetry?	iambic.tetra
and, like the baseless fabric of this vision,	iambic.penta
flow'rs worthy of paradise, which not nice art	iambic.penta
of porous earth with kindly thirst up-drawn,	iambic.penta
until i cried and trembled and rocked to and fro,	alexandr.iambic.hexa
so wild that every casual thought of that and this	alexandr.iambic.hexa
you stand upon the rivage and behold	iambic.penta
in truth the prison, unto which we doom	iambic.penta
these latter about to fall. i thought that only	iambic.penta
nor chang'd his course, but through the shaggy hill	iambic.penta
o round mine eyes your tresses shake!	iambic.tetra
to come vnto his wished home in haste,	iambic.penta
of beauty from the light retired;	iambic.tetra
and with sweet pastimes grace my happy tomb;	iambic.penta
what immortal hand or eye	iambic.tetra
and there i dreamed-- ah! woe betide!--	iambic.tetra
to do good to mankind is the chivalrous plan,	chol.iamb
who travels by the wearie wandring way,	iambic.penta
out walking in the frozen swamp one gray day,	iambic.penta
which by and by black night doth take away,	iambic.penta
and though the last lights off the black west went	iambic.penta
as e'er beneath a waning moon was haunted	iambic.penta
beyond red roofs about a narrow wharf	iambic.penta
and bring in cloudy night immediately.	iambic.penta
the brain is deeper than the sea--	iambic.tetra
shall i compare thee to a summer's day?	iambic.penta
haply i think on thee--and then my state,	iambic.penta
the sweet keen smell,	iambic.di
hoping it might be so.	iambic.tri
five miles meandering with a mazy motion	iambic.penta
either man's work or his own gifts: who best	iambic.penta
had wound strings round and round it like a bundle.	iambic.penta
and i only see	iambic.di
no motion has she now, no force;	iambic.tetra
i, like an usurped town, to another due,	iambic.penta
that on the ashes of his youth doth lie,	iambic.penta
come back to me in dreams, that i may give	iambic.penta
the gray sea and the long black land;	iambic.tetra
tread softly because you tread on my dreams.	iambic.tetra
robs not one light seed from the feather'd grass,	iambic.penta
"they also serve who only stand and wait."""	iambic.penta
love wounds with heat, as death with cold;	iambic.tetra
with ease-- and you--beside--	iambic.tri
though i am young, and cannot tell	iambic.tetra
repair me now, for now mine end doth haste;	iambic.penta
i have been here before,	iambic.tri
yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve,	iambic.penta
and winter falls of old	iambic.tri
let him combat for that of his neighbours;	chol.iamb
until the latter fire shall heat the deep;	iambic.penta
as after sunset fadeth in the west;	iambic.penta
love, laughter, or mourning--remembrance of rapture or fear--	chol.iamb
you being ever dissolved to wan wistlessness,	chol.iamb
and the souls of whom thou lovest	troch.tetra
and this is why i sojourn here	iambic.tetra
rough winds do shake the darling buds of may,	iambic.penta
except love's fires the virtue have	iambic.tetra
they never say a word to her	iambic.tetra
to me that feele the like, thy state descries.	iambic.penta
and fond, that ioyest in the woe thou hast,	iambic.penta
can judge of love, thou feel'st a lover's case;	iambic.penta
and shouted and leapt down upon the fallen;	iambic.penta
desiring this man's art and that man's scope,	iambic.penta
he is not here; but far away	iambic.tetra
could twist the sinews of thy heart?	iambic.tetra
so fair a fancy few would weave	iambic.tetra
unless alarm came from the camp of love.	iambic.penta
heard in dead night along that table-shore,	iambic.penta
i run, i run, i am gathered to thy heart.	iambic.penta
when, in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes,	iambic.penta
in roaring he shall rise and on the surface die.	alexandr.iambic.hexa
floated midway on the waves;	iambic.tetra
water'd the garden; thence united fell	iambic.penta
woe weeps out her division when she sings.	iambic.penta
is bare now, nor can foot feel, being shod.	iambic.penta
without sharp north, without declining west?	iambic.penta
for-- put them side by side--	iambic.tri
next, when i cast mine eyes and see	iambic.tetra
upon the rapid current, which through veins	iambic.penta
one foot went through. the view was all in lines	iambic.penta
thro' the clouds ere they divide them;	troch.tetra
moved we as plunderers where the mother bird	iambic.penta
world broods with warm breast and with ah! bright wings.	iambic.penta
o dream how sweet, too sweet, too bitter-sweet,	iambic.penta
and all should cry, beware! beware!	iambic.tetra
suddenly	iambic.di
shouldering the naked crag, oh, at that time	iambic.penta
because of all things known	iambic.tri
the hand that mocked them, and the heart that fed:	iambic.penta
there lives the dearest freshness deep down things;	iambic.penta
the speculating rooks at their nests cawed	iambic.penta
since nature's pride is now a withered daffodil.	alexandr.iambic.hexa
with a leap and a bound the swift anapests throng.	chol.iamb
strike flat the thick rotundity of the world,	iambic.penta
it was no dream of the gift of idle hours,	iambic.penta
that are so wondrous sweet and fair!	iambic.tetra
make the cold air fire; then screen them	troch.tetra
to love that well which thou must leave ere long.	iambic.penta
even such is time, which takes in trust	iambic.tetra
pray tell me, sir, whose dog are you?	iambic.tetra
is rounded with a sleep. sir, i am vexed.	iambic.penta
three fields to cross till a farm appears;	iambic.tetra
nor lose possession of that fair thou ow'st;	iambic.penta
by sin in it, which it towards hell doth weigh.	iambic.penta
some veil did fall,--i knew it all of yore.	iambic.penta
lodged with me useless, though my soul more bent	iambic.penta
of night and light and the half-light,	iambic.tetra
what passing-bells for these who die as cattle?	iambic.penta
pale warriors, death-pale were they all;	iambic.tetra
the wrinkled sea beneath him crawls;	iambic.tetra
"""beware the jabberwock, my son!"	iambic.tetra
down the green hill athwart a cedarn cover!	iambic.penta
to the earnest love that laid the swale in rows,	iambic.penta
be it not seen in either of our brows	iambic.penta
"""now they are all on their knees,"""	iambic.tri
our beauties are not ours. o, i could still,	iambic.penta
shall we not lie as we have lain	iambic.tetra
vanished, and left but memories, that should be out of season	alexandr.iambic.hexa
hands, do what you're bid:	iambic.tri
my very life again though cold in death;	iambic.penta
and all my bonds i needs must loose apart,	iambic.penta
and post o'er land and ocean without rest:	iambic.penta
thou sober-suited matron all in black,	iambic.penta
that i would not have that view	iambic.tri
of waters,--with a sound but half its own,	iambic.penta
like melting snow upon some craggy hill,	iambic.penta
must purling streams refresh a lover's loves?	iambic.penta
whose wakening should have been in paradise,	iambic.penta
to put a tree between us when he lighted,	iambic.penta
as in a ruin we it call	iambic.tetra
and not blush so to be admired.	iambic.tetra
pause answer to pause, and again the same strain caught,	chol.iamb
awake for ever in a sweet unrest,	iambic.penta
and quench its speed i' the slushy sand.	iambic.tetra
and pay no worship to the garish sun.	iambic.penta
speak low, lean low,	iambic.di
the invisible worm	chol.iamb
who, were it proved he lies,	iambic.tri
to fright the frost out of the grave.	iambic.tetra
"hath thee in thrall!"""	iambic.di
i know the grass beyond the door,	iambic.tetra
from death to life thou mightst him yet recover.	iambic.penta
thy glory by thy side.	iambic.tri
nor ever ask her what she has lost	iambic.tetra
it best agrees with night. come, civil night,	iambic.penta
come, gentle night; come, loving, black-browed night;	iambic.penta
the kraken sleepeth: faintest sunlights flee	iambic.penta
yet i have heard they both bear darts,	iambic.tetra
and learn me how to lose a winning match,	iambic.penta
until next may	iambic.di
that the heart of the hearer may smile if to pleasure his ear	chol.iamb
what the hammer? what the chain?	iambic.tetra
on what wings dare he aspire?	iambic.tetra
that sunny dome! those caves of ice!	iambic.tetra
when you had changed from the one who was all to me,	chol.iamb
where springs not fail,	iambic.di
or somewhere else: i was just far from home.	iambic.penta
crack nature's moulds, all germains spill at once,	iambic.penta
and is always as nobly requited;	chol.iamb
who have felt the weight of too much liberty,	iambic.penta
as long ago, my love, how long ago.	iambic.penta
and drunk the milk of paradise.	iambic.tetra
and now good-morrow to our waking souls,	iambic.penta
bid her come forth,	iambic.di
shuts up the story of our days;	iambic.tetra
and crown with love my ever-during night.	iambic.penta
they leave us so to the way we took,	iambic.tetra
and say no word to tell me who he was	iambic.penta
in these years! yet, i feel,	iambic.tri
woman much missed, how you call to me, call to me,	chol.iamb
and students with their pensive citadels;	iambic.penta
and bracelets too, and fragrant zone;	iambic.tetra
the sound must seem an echo to the sense.	iambic.penta
but doth suffer a sea change	iambic.tetra
beacons from the abode where the eternal are.	alexandr.iambic.hexa
come, night; come, romeo; come, thou day in night;	iambic.penta
had i the heavens' embroidered cloths,	iambic.tetra
such as a feeble brook will oft assume	iambic.penta
when faith is kneeling by his bed of death,	iambic.penta
then, then (methinks) how sweetly flows	iambic.tetra
just as when he was not a ghost,	iambic.tetra
where the youth pined away with desire,	chol.iamb
burns bright or dim as each are mirrors of	iambic.penta
and sure in language strange she said,	iambic.tetra
either what death or love is well,	iambic.tetra
are beauties there as proud as here they be?	iambic.penta
a damsel with a dulcimer	iambic.tetra
soft is the strain when zephyr gently blows,	iambic.penta
in those looks, where whoso gazes	troch.tetra
into something rich and strange.	iambic.tetra
who was so foolish as to think what he thought.	iambic.penta
rolled round in earth's diurnal course,	iambic.tetra
and i yn my bed agayne	iambic.tri
when we have wandered all our ways	iambic.tetra
the world is charged with the grandeur of god.	iambic.penta
it was a miracle of rare device,	iambic.penta
when timely death my life and fortune ends,	iambic.penta
suspended by the blast that blew amain,	iambic.penta
and leave it there far from a useful fireplace	iambic.penta
is kingly. thousands at his bidding speed	iambic.penta
yet come to me in dreams, that i may live	iambic.penta
that all the world will be in love with night	iambic.penta
the solemn temples, the great globe itself,	iambic.penta
has found out thy bed	chol.iamb
he watches from his mountain walls,	iambic.tetra
were neither shamed in his own	iambic.tri
on the cold hill's side.	iambic.di
it gathers to a greatness, like the ooze of oil	iambic.penta
i fondly ask; but patience to prevent	iambic.penta
by reason of his fallen divinity	iambic.penta
its jewel of music is carven of all or of aught--	chol.iamb
so long as men can breathe, or eyes can see,	iambic.penta
the noise of life begins a gain,	iambic.tetra
your force to break, blow, burn, and make me new.	iambic.penta
from any brazen throat,	iambic.tri
the sighing sound, the lights around the shore.	iambic.penta
come to me in the silence of the night;	iambic.penta
with danish barrows; and a hazel wood,	iambic.penta
has woven a winter robe,	iambic.tri
for how can you compete,	iambic.tri
i would spread the cloths under your feet:	iambic.tetra
and as in uffish thought he stood,	iambic.tetra
play with your fancies, and in them behold	iambic.penta
with equanimity.	iambic.tri
where can we find two better hemispheres,	iambic.penta
then bloody swords and armor should not be;	iambic.penta
bear with my weakness: my old brain is troubled.	iambic.penta
yet dearly i love you, and would be lovèd fain,	iambic.penta
with what i most enjoy contented least;	iambic.penta
or even last year's or the year's before.	iambic.penta
and piled--and measured, four by four by eight.	iambic.penta
and it was older sure than this year's cutting,	iambic.penta
to doubt they were kneeling then.	iambic.tri
that light whose smile kindles the universe,	iambic.penta
holding due course to harfleur. follow, follow!	iambic.penta
but it must never, never come in sight;	iambic.penta
fall, as the crest of some slow-arching wave,	iambic.penta
become a verse? is there in truth no beauty?	iambic.penta
those are pearls that were his eyes:	iambic.tetra
and thy smiles before they dwindle	troch.tetra
as dreams are made on, and our little life	iambic.penta
and the mome raths outgrabe.	iambic.tri
in the wild woods, among the mountains lone,	iambic.penta
our youth, our joys, and all we have,	iambic.tetra
far, far beneath in the abysmal sea,	iambic.penta
it was a cord of maple, cut and split	iambic.penta
huge fragments vaulted like rebounding hail,	iambic.penta
ask for that lowest place, but thou hast died	iambic.penta
dare its deadly terrors clasp?	iambic.tetra
but is captived, and proves weak or untrue.	iambic.penta
so twice five miles of fertile ground	iambic.tetra
the moving waters at their priestlike task	iambic.penta
are melted into air, into thin air;	iambic.penta
and i have asked to be	iambic.tri
or chaffy grain beneath the thresher's flail:	iambic.penta
with a foul witch	chol.iamb
and 'mid this tumult kubla heard from far	iambic.penta
is constant love deem'd there but want of wit?	iambic.penta
that we one jot of former love retain.	iambic.penta
i look into my glass,	iambic.tri
his flashing eyes! his floating hair!	iambic.tetra
and the harvest's done.	iambic.di
still growing, and on one a stake and prop,	iambic.penta
only the stuttering rifles' rapid rattle	iambic.penta
or what is the matter.	iambic.di
all mimsy were the borogoves,	iambic.tetra
the latest dream i ever dreamed	iambic.tetra
and sudden arbors shadow coarse-spun lines?	iambic.penta
blow through my ear! the sky seemed not a sky	iambic.penta
where blossomed many an incense-bearing tree;	iambic.penta
full fathom five thy father lies;	iambic.tetra
as syllable from sound--	iambic.tri
played for a pair of stainless maidenhoods.	iambic.penta
and meetes a flood, that doth his passage stay,	iambic.penta
o what can ail thee, knight-at-arms,	iambic.tetra
sea nymphs hourly ring his knell:	iambic.tetra
it sinks; and i am ready to depart.	iambic.penta
i had no human fears:	iambic.tri
and made sweet moan.	iambic.di
o rose, thou art sick!	chol.iamb
of crimson joy,	chol.iamb
fall, winter, fall; for he,	iambic.tri
which i desired, and got, 'twas but a dream of thee.	alexandr.iambic.hexa
nay, i have done, you get no more of me,	iambic.penta
the soul of adonais, like a star,	iambic.penta
and then again, i have been told	iambic.tetra
at earliest morning to the door.	iambic.tetra
that makes ingrateful man.	iambic.tri
will murmur by the hour in foxglove bells:	iambic.penta
the lone and level sands stretch far away.	iambic.penta
blow, winds, and crack your cheeks. rage, blow.	iambic.penta
over its rocks ceaselessly bursts and raves.	iambic.penta
where was heard the mingled measure	iambic.tetra
when night gives pause to the long watch i keep,	iambic.penta
the fire for which all thirst; now beams on me,	iambic.penta
our object and inglorious, yet the end	iambic.penta
then a mile of warm sea-scented beach;	iambic.tetra
nature i loved, and, next to nature, art:	iambic.penta
came whiffling through the tulgey wood,	iambic.tetra
let not my hearse be vexed with mourning friends,	iambic.penta
of pure ablution round earth's human shores,	iambic.penta
did gyre and gimble in the wabe;	iambic.tetra
a long street climbs to one tall-towered mill;	iambic.penta
but let the drunkard, as he stretched from horse	iambic.penta
with mis chievous, vagrant, seraphic look,	iambic.tetra
so moves the device whence, round as a pearl or tear,	chol.iamb
and watered heaven with their tears,	iambic.tetra
my name is ozymandias, king of kings:	iambic.penta
tell that its sculptor well those passions read	iambic.penta
and view my wasting skin,	iambic.tri
sometimes too hot the eye of heaven shines,	iambic.penta
trochee trips from long to short.	troch.tetra
the jaws that bite, the claws that catch!	iambic.tetra
and often is his gold complexion dimmed;	iambic.penta
and like a thunderbolt he falls.	iambic.tetra
wishing me like to one more rich in hope,	iambic.penta
battening upon huge seaworms in his sleep,	iambic.penta
thro' the vest which seems to hide them;	troch.tetra
the blue and the dim and the dark cloths	iambic.tetra
wind oozing thin through the thorn from norward,	troch.tetra
lamp of earth! where'er thou movest	troch.tetra
to strike him, overbalancing his bulk,	iambic.penta
lies one long sought	chol.iamb
bred to a harder thing	iambic.tri
"""i love thee true."""	iambic.di
they dwelt in their strawy pen,	iambic.tri
carry him off the way i might have gone,	iambic.penta
yet she has fancied blackbirds hide	iambic.tetra
spread thy close curtain, love-performing night,	iambic.penta
if our two loves be one, or thou and i	iambic.penta
suffer herself to be desired,	iambic.tetra
and 'mid these dancing rocks, at once and ever	iambic.penta
and thereupon imagination and heart were driven	alexandr.iambic.hexa
in the forests of the night,	iambic.tetra
down to a sunless sea.	iambic.tri
catching the sense at two removes?	iambic.tetra
the sedge has withered from the lake,	iambic.tetra
she cries at them for carelessness	iambic.tetra
towards phoebus' lodging! such a wagoner	iambic.penta
who see her going loverless	iambic.tetra
whatever dies was not mixed equally;	iambic.penta
could lonely wait my endless rest	iambic.tetra
still as the silence round about his lair;	iambic.penta
and her eyes were wild.	iambic.di
i envy no man's nightingale or spring;	iambic.penta
what we below could not see, winter pass.	iambic.penta
stand in the desert.... near them, on the sand,	iambic.penta
what the hand dare seize the fire?	iambic.tetra
hawk, heron, owl, and woodpecker.	iambic.tetra
for sidelong would she bend, and sing	iambic.tetra
that now she knows,	iambic.di
what, may it be that even in heavenly place	alexandr.iambic.hexa
them to know them gone.	iambic.di
over and over.	iambic.di
but when or how i cannot tell:	iambic.tetra
for-- hold them-- blue to blue--	iambic.tri
then battle for freedom wherever you can,	chol.iamb
and sleep, and wake, yet never break the chain?	iambic.penta
so quickly, waiting for a hand,	iambic.tetra
sit blithe and happy; bees that soar for bloom,	iambic.penta
thus for love's sake,	iambic.di
thou hast made me, and shall thy work decay?	iambic.penta
and i am glad, yea glad with all my heart	iambic.penta
i shun the love that lurks in all delight--	iambic.penta
and wears the turning globe.	iambic.tri
true ease in writing comes from art, not chance,	iambic.penta
so as to say for certain i was here	iambic.penta
had in high places built her lodge; though mean	iambic.penta
he ended: arthur knew the voice; the face	iambic.penta
someone who lived in turning to fresh tasks	iambic.penta
runs diverse, wand'ring many a famous realm	iambic.penta
crushed. why do men then now not reck his rod?	iambic.penta
and then there was a pile of wood for which	iambic.penta
could so forget his handiwork on which	iambic.penta
that then i scorn to change my state with kings.	iambic.penta
this breast, the thought of thee waits, hidden yet bright;	iambic.penta
and all who heard should see them there,	iambic.tetra
but i, being poor, have only my dreams;	iambic.tetra
and she has slept, trying to translate	iambic.tetra
through open doors, and swording right and left	iambic.penta
'twas brillig, and the slithy toves	iambic.tetra
with the slow smokeless burning of decay.	iambic.penta
head-heavy; then the knights, who watched him, roared	iambic.penta
hark! now i hear them: ding-dong, bell.	iambic.tetra
she looked at me as she did love,	iambic.tetra
with mazy error under pendant shades	iambic.penta
amid whose swift half-intermitted burst	iambic.penta
that opening, letting in, lets out no more.	iambic.penta
and when thy heart began to beat,	iambic.tetra
for thou wilt lie upon the wings of night	iambic.penta
she found me roots of relish sweet,	iambic.tetra
in the forests of the night,	iambic.tetra
nothing of him that doth fade,	iambic.tetra
and this atmosphere divinest	troch.tetra
sleepe after toyle, port after stormy seas,	iambic.penta
borne with the invisible and creeping wind,	iambic.penta
but our old subtle foe so tempteth me	iambic.penta
and here were forests ancient as the hills,	iambic.penta
i would build that dome in air,	iambic.tetra
nor in his neighbours' eyes?	iambic.tri
let maps to others, worlds on worlds have shown,	iambic.penta
of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare,	iambic.penta
consuming the last clouds of cold mortality.	alexandr.iambic.hexa
and made of earth and sea	iambic.tri
and the yellow half-moon large and low;	iambic.tetra
in the lonely barton by yonder coomb	iambic.tetra
yet slower, yet, o faintly, gentle springs!	iambic.penta
with anguish moist and fever-dew,	iambic.tetra
is all good structure in a winding stair?	iambic.penta
whiter than new snow upon a raven's back.	iambic.penta
and that was my long scythe whispering to the ground.	iambic.penta
far over sands marbled with moon and cloud,	iambic.penta
heard no more again far or near?	chol.iamb
that fancy may fashion to hang in the ear of thought.	chol.iamb
with kisses four.	iambic.di
in his ecstasy! then off, off forth on swing,	iambic.penta
it was an abyssinian maid,	iambic.tetra
"""doth god exact day-labor, light denied?"""	iambic.penta
be secret and exult,	iambic.tri
a small bird flew before me. he was careful	iambic.penta
no wonder of it: sheer plod makes plough down sillion	iambic.penta
a tap at the pane, the quick sharp scratch	iambic.tetra
do they call vertue there ungratefulnesse?	iambic.penta
