vpon the banke, yet wilt thy selfe not passe the flood?	alexandr.iambic.hexa
i run, i run, i am gathered to thy heart.	iambic.penta
"the frumious bandersnatch!"""	iambic.tri
your neck turned so,	iambic.di
for sidelong would she bend, and sing	iambic.tetra
sure, if that long with love acquainted eyes	iambic.penta
shuts up the story of our days;	iambic.tetra
as those move easiest  who have learn'd to dance.	iambic.penta
now all the truth is out,	iambic.tri
either man's work or his own gifts: who best	iambic.penta
haply i think on thee--and then my state,	iambic.penta
where souls brim-full of love abide and meet;	iambic.penta
shall shine the holy glimmers of goodbyes.	iambic.penta
and wears the turning globe.	iambic.tri
but soon as once set is our little light,	iambic.penta
most enuious man, that grieues at neighbours good,	iambic.penta
to me that feele the like, thy state descries.	iambic.penta
thrush, blackbird, all that sing in may	iambic.tetra
featured like him, like him with friends possessed,	iambic.penta
with anguish moist and fever-dew,	iambic.tetra
when timely death my life and fortune ends,	iambic.penta
and when we meet at any time again,	iambic.penta
and sure in language strange she said,	iambic.tetra
whose wakening should have been in paradise,	iambic.penta
my face in thine eye, thine in mine appears,	iambic.penta
it gathers to a greatness,  like the ooze of oil	iambic.penta
what held it though on one side was a tree	iambic.penta
to fright the frost out of the grave.	iambic.tetra
fast withereth too.	iambic.di
suddenly	iambic.di
go, lovely rose!	iambic.di
suspended by the blast that blew amain,	iambic.penta
dom of daylight's dauphin, dapple-dawn-drawn falcon, in his riding	iambic.penta
the noise of life begins a gain,	iambic.tetra
one, two! one, two! and through and through	iambic.tetra
and all feel, yet see thee never,	troch.tetra
speak low, lean low,	iambic.di
since nature's pride is now a withered daffodil.	alexandr.iambic.hexa
not without feeble pointed spikes of flowers	iambic.penta
the wrinkled sea beneath him crawls;	iambic.tetra
'twas brillig,  and the slithy toves	iambic.tetra
o what can ail thee, knight-at-arms,	iambic.tetra
did gyre and gimble in the wabe;	iambic.tetra
when faith is kneeling by his bed of death,	iambic.penta
rough winds do shake the darling buds of may,	iambic.penta
"they also serve who only stand and wait."""	iambic.penta
leap to these arms untalked of and unseen.	iambic.penta
is constant love deem'd there but want of wit?	iambic.penta
reason, your viceroy in me, me should defend,	iambic.penta
a roundel is wrought.	chol.iamb
with how sad steps, o moone, thou climb'st the skies,	iambic.penta
do they call vertue there ungratefulnesse?	iambic.penta
and quench its speed i' the slushy sand.	iambic.tetra
and the pile somewhat sunken. clematis	iambic.penta
there lives the dearest freshness deep down things;	iambic.penta
draw the huge bottoms through the furrowed sea,	iambic.penta
a tap at the pane, the quick sharp scratch	iambic.tetra
that opening,  letting in, lets out no more.	iambic.penta
they leave us so to the way we took,	iambic.tetra
and the startled little waves that leap	iambic.tetra
my god and love thee so.	iambic.tri
i set her on my pacing steed,	iambic.tetra
i should go with him in the gloom,	iambic.tetra
that with music loud and long,	iambic.tetra
and nothing else saw all day long	iambic.tetra
i made a garland for her head,	iambic.tetra
that runaways' eyes may wink, and romeo	iambic.penta
who says that fictions only and false hair	iambic.penta
but with the swift alone.	iambic.tri
"they cried, ""la belle dame sans merci"	iambic.tetra
and now good-morrow to our waking souls,	iambic.penta
unless alarm came from the camp of love.	iambic.penta
whereon mad fingers play	iambic.tri
he ended: arthur knew the voice; the face	iambic.penta
and all my pleasures are like yesterday.	iambic.penta
i saw their starved lips in the gloam	iambic.tetra
did gyre and gimble in the wabe;	iambic.tetra
i have been here before,	iambic.tri
and sank his head in mire, and slimed themselves:	iambic.penta
and the souls of whom thou lovest	troch.tetra
lodged with me useless, though my soul more bent	iambic.penta
far from the fiery noon, and eve's one star,	iambic.penta
and ghastly through the drizzling rain	iambic.tetra
but when loud surges lash the sounding shore,	iambic.penta
far sunken from the healthy breath of morn,	iambic.penta
with what i most enjoy contented least;	iambic.penta
i have desired to go	iambic.tri
like cloud on cloud. no stir of air was there,	iambic.penta
just as when he was not a ghost,	iambic.tetra
did, till we loved: were we not weaned till then?	iambic.penta
shine, and blue-bleak embers, ahmy dear,	iambic.penta
that seemed as though ice burned and was but the more ice,	alexandr.iambic.hexa
perhaps it was something about the heat of the sun,	iambic.penta
and from which earth, and grave, and dust	iambic.tetra
as yet but knock, breathe, shine, and seek to mend;	iambic.penta
the fact is the sweetest dream that labor knows.	iambic.penta
went wandering somewhere darkling in his mind.	iambic.penta
but ill sustained, and almost (so it seemed)	iambic.penta
bare ruined choirs, where late the sweet birds sang	iambic.penta
of his bones are coral made;	iambic.tetra
her symphony and song,	iambic.tri
close to the sun in lonely lands,	iambic.tetra
hands, do what you're bid:	iambic.tri
the invisible worm	chol.iamb
o what can ail thee, knight-at-arms,	iambic.tetra
i must not think of thee; and, tired yet strong,	iambic.penta
so rested he by the tumtum tree,	iambic.tetra
and that was my long scythe whispering to the ground.	iambic.penta
and no birds sing.	iambic.di
which by and by black night doth take away,	iambic.penta
thou hast made me, and shall thy work decay?	iambic.penta
for thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings	iambic.penta
upon the hempen tackle shipboys climbing:	iambic.penta
can judge of love, thou feel'st a lover's case;	iambic.penta
through caverns measureless to man	iambic.tetra
with rocks and stones and trees.	iambic.tri
yet come to me in dreams, that i may live	iambic.penta
to feel for ever its soft fall and swell,	iambic.penta
and 'mid this tumult kubla heard from far	iambic.penta
pray tell me, sir, whose dog are you?	iambic.tetra
desiring this man's art and that man's scope,	iambic.penta
brute beauty and vallour and act,oh, air, pride,plume, here	iambic.penta
men, women, on their sodden faces, hurled	iambic.penta
and meetes a flood, that doth his passage stay,	iambic.penta
gallop apace, you fiery-footed steeds,	iambic.penta
someone who lived in turning to fresh tasks	iambic.penta
forest on forest hung above his head	iambic.penta
the hoarse, rough verse shou'd like the torrent roar.	iambic.penta
but when sleep comes to close each difficult day,	iambic.penta
slow, slow, fresh fount, keep time with my salt tears;	iambic.penta
that brave vibration each way free,	iambic.tetra
anything more than the truth would have seemed too weak	iambic.penta
something, perhaps, about the lack of sound--	iambic.penta
bred to a harder thing	iambic.tri
had wound strings round and round it like a bundle.	iambic.penta
with howsad stepso moonethou climb'stthe skies	iambic.penta
and she has slept, trying to translate	iambic.tetra
and like a laughing string	iambic.tri
riddled with light. ah! when the ghost begins to quicken,	alexandr.iambic.hexa
and every fair from fair sometimes declines,	iambic.penta
and often is his gold complexion dimmed;	iambic.penta
so long lives this, and this gives life to thee.	iambic.penta
so long lives this, and this gives life to thee.	iambic.penta
in truth the prison, unto which we doom	iambic.penta
till they fail, as i am failing,	troch.tetra
as the deathbed whereon it must expire,	iambic.penta
and stood awhile in thought.	iambic.tri
is bare now, nor can foot feel, being shod.	iambic.penta
those lovers scorne whom that love doth possesse?	iambic.penta
dare frame thy fearful symmetry?	iambic.tetra
that not one hour myself i can sustain.	iambic.penta
i have spread my dreams under your feet;	iambic.tetra
but when or how i cannot tell:	iambic.tetra
yet come to me in dreams, that i may live	iambic.penta
a long street climbs to one tall-towered mill;	iambic.penta
like nature's patient, sleepless eremite,	iambic.penta
what was it it whispered? i knew not well myself;	iambic.penta
bare ruined choirs, where late the sweet birds sang.	iambic.penta
a city on the inconstant billows dancing;	iambic.penta
by the embers in hearthside ease.	iambic.tri
nuns fret not at their convent's narrow room,	iambic.penta
(pale orchises), and scared a bright green snake. --	iambic.penta
by reason of his fallen divinity	iambic.penta
she laughs at them for childishness,	iambic.tetra
come with soft rounded cheeks and eyes as bright	iambic.penta
to me that feele the like, thy state descries.	iambic.penta
it sinks; and i am ready to depart.	iambic.penta
the one the other will contain	iambic.tetra
world broods with warm breast and with ah! bright wings.	iambic.penta
no wonder of it: sheer plod makes plough down sillion	iambic.penta
pour'd forth profuse on hill and dale and plain.	iambic.penta
lies one long sought	chol.iamb
iambics march from short to long.	iambic.tetra
where souls brim-full of love abide and meet;	iambic.penta
are beauties there as proud as here they be?	iambic.penta
what, may it be that even in heav'nly place	alexandr.iambic.hexa
and country whereof here needs no account,	iambic.penta
but oh! that deep romantic chasm which slanted	iambic.penta
now at the last gasp of love's latest breath	iambic.penta
and the yellow half-moon large and low;	iambic.tetra
i should go with him in the gloom,	iambic.tetra
how dick would hate the cold.	iambic.tri
and thy smiles before they dwindle	troch.tetra
by the injustice of the skies for punishment?	alexandr.iambic.hexa
when a man hath no freedom to fight for at home,	chol.iamb
and songless plover,	iambic.di
of snow upon the mountains and the moors--	iambic.penta
than triumph, turn away	iambic.tri
come, gentle night; come, loving, black-browed night;	iambic.penta
i dare not move my dim eyes any way,	iambic.penta
far, far beneath in the abysmal sea,	iambic.penta
should find brief solace there,as i have found.	iambic.penta
wishing me like to one more rich in hope,	iambic.penta
till you have drenched our steeples, drowned the cocks.	iambic.penta
where i may sit and see	iambic.tri
as long ago, my love, how long ago.	iambic.penta
if someone said on christmas eve,	iambic.tetra
it was a cord of maple, cut and split	iambic.penta
when in eternal lines to time thou grow'st;	iambic.penta
the line too labours, and the words move slow;	iambic.penta
only the stuttering rifles' rapid rattle	iambic.penta
a secret, and that thrushes chide	iambic.tetra
and saw from elm-tops, delicate as flower of grass,	iambic.penta
rolled round in earth's diurnal course,	iambic.tetra
and like a thunderbolt he falls.	iambic.tetra
without so much as wishing him good-night.	iambic.penta
than that of thought. suppose that you have seen	iambic.penta
this breast, the thought of thee waits, hidden yet bright;	iambic.penta
"""and hast thou slain the jabberwock?"	iambic.tetra
the night is freezing fast,	iambic.tri
divorce me, untie or break that knot again;	iambic.penta
with mis chievous, vagrant, seraphic look,	iambic.tetra
of waters, -- with a sound but half its own,	iambic.penta
is not great grace to helpe him ouer past,	iambic.penta
his ancient, dreamless, uninvaded sleep	iambic.penta
not to a true, but painted chair?	iambic.tetra
he thought that i was after him for a feather--	iambic.penta
yet dearly i love you, and would be lovèd fain,	iambic.penta
the jaws that bite, the claws that catch!	iambic.tetra
how sweet and fair she seems to be.	iambic.tetra
the word the cuckoo cries to his mate	iambic.tetra
even to the original air-blue gown!	chol.iamb
to come vnto his wished home in haste,	iambic.penta
ever to come up with dactyl trisyllable.	chol.iamb
he went galumphing back.	iambic.tri
where the youth pined away with desire,	chol.iamb
as sunlight on a stream;	iambic.tri
hood my unmanned blood, bating in my cheeks,	iambic.penta
let him think of the glories of greece and of rome,	chol.iamb
and pay no worship to the garish sun.	iambic.penta
i saw pale kings and princes too,	iambic.tetra
or what is the matter.	iambic.di
what immortal hand or eye	iambic.tetra
to me that feele the like, thy state descries.	iambic.penta
in sundry moods,'twas pastime to be bound	iambic.penta
did he smile his work to see?	iambic.tetra
upon the rapid current, which through veins	iambic.penta
i wonder, by my troth, what thou and i	iambic.penta
and that was why it whispered and did not speak.	iambic.penta
the jaws that bite, the claws that catch !	iambic.tetra
if ever any beauty i did see,	iambic.penta
a stream went voiceless by, still deaden'd more	iambic.penta
to fields where flies no sharp and sided hail	iambic.penta
and that one talent which is death to hide	iambic.penta
and try if we cannot feel forsaken.	iambic.tetra
nor chang'd his course, but through the shaggy hill	iambic.penta
for then, i,  undistrest	iambic.tri
then battle for freedom wherever you can,	chol.iamb
could lonely wait my endless rest	iambic.tetra
now dark --now glittering -- now reflecting gloom --	iambic.penta
while on the perilous ridge i hung alone,	iambic.penta
and of ten is his gold complexion dimmed;	iambic.penta
that light whose smile kindles the universe,	iambic.penta
vanished, and left but memories, that should be out of season	alexandr.iambic.hexa
come in the speaking silence of a dream;	iambic.penta
either what death or love is well,	iambic.tetra
and watching, with eternal lids apart,	iambic.penta
now if thou wouldst, when all have given him over,	iambic.penta
enwrought with golden and silver light,	iambic.tetra
the solemn temples, the great globe itself,	iambic.penta
then once by man and angels to be seen,	iambic.penta
and i am glad, yea glad with all my heart	iambic.penta
she looked at me as she did love,	iambic.tetra
nor ever chaste, except you ravish me.	iambic.penta
catching the sense at two removes?	iambic.tetra
with how sad steps, o moone, thou climb'st the skies,	iambic.penta
pillow'd upon my fair love's ripening breast,	iambic.penta
did he who made the lamb make thee?	iambic.tetra
let sea-discoverers to new worlds have gone,	iambic.penta
and both do aim at human hearts.	iambic.tetra
for-- put them side by side--	iambic.tri
was not ignoble. oh! when i have hung	iambic.penta
could so forget his handiwork on which	iambic.penta
i saw the swift's black bow,	iambic.tri
so twice five miles of fertile ground	iambic.tetra
take me to you, imprison me, for i,	iambic.penta
he chortled in his joy.	iambic.tri
speak low, lean low,	iambic.di
the well-appointed king at hampton pier	iambic.penta
how silently, and with how wanne a face,	iambic.penta
the vorpal blade went snicker-snack!	iambic.tetra
the shrill, demented choirs of wailing shells;	iambic.penta
i strove with none, for none was worth my strife:	iambic.penta
part steals, lets part abide;	other
still, still to hear her tender-taken breath,	iambic.penta
"no, i will go on farther--and we shall see."""	iambic.penta
when stretched in the harvest blue	iambic.tri
but when loud surges lash the sounding shore,	iambic.penta
enfolding sunny spots of greenery.	iambic.penta
"""i love thee true."""	iambic.di
borne with the invisible and creeping wind,	iambic.penta
think true love acted simple modesty.	iambic.penta
i run to death, and death meets me as fast,	iambic.penta
should find brief solace there, as i have found.	iambic.penta
no--yet still stedfast,  still unchangeable,	iambic.penta
this thou perceiv'st, which makes thy love more strong,	iambic.penta
with silken streamers the young phoebus fanning.	iambic.penta
that brave vibration each way free,	iambic.tetra
from death to life thou mightst him yet recover.	iambic.penta
lamp of earth! where'er thou movest	troch.tetra
has woven a winter robe,	iambic.tri
heard no more again far or near?	chol.iamb
that we sit sometimes in the wayside nook,	iambic.tetra
be it not seen in either of our brows	iambic.penta
tyger! tyger! burning bright	iambic.tetra
come back in tears,	iambic.di
prompt hand and headpiece clever	iambic.tri
of porous earth with kindly thirst up-drawn,	iambic.penta
three fields to cross till a farm appears;	iambic.tetra
far from the shore, far from the trembling throng	iambic.penta
to-morrow comes december;	iambic.tri
blow through my ear! the sky seemed not a sky	iambic.penta
the gray sea and the long black land;	iambic.tetra
i have spread my dreams under your feet;	iambic.tetra
come back to me in dreams, that i may give	iambic.penta
that we one jot of former love retain.	iambic.penta
the blue and the dim and the dark cloths	iambic.tetra
and winter falls of old	iambic.tri
that i may rise and stand, o'erthrow me and bend	iambic.penta
or even last year's or the year's before.	iambic.penta
not in lone splendour hung aloft the night	iambic.penta
list to the heavy part the music bears,	iambic.penta
she dwelt among the untrodden ways,	iambic.tetra
oh, morning,  at the brown brink eastward, springs --	iambic.penta
and the smooth stream in smoother numers flows;	iambic.penta
i have desired to go	iambic.tri
through open doors, and swording right and left	iambic.penta
nor any voice of mourning save the choirs,--	iambic.penta
a damsel with a dulcimer	iambic.tetra
the love of thee--and in the blue heaven's height,	iambic.penta
and all my bonds i needs must loose apart,	iambic.penta
or snorted we in the seven sleepers' den?	iambic.penta
did gyre and gimble in the wabe;	iambic.tetra
ringed with the azure world, he stands.	iambic.tetra
not without feeble pointed spikes of flowers	other
how silently, and with how wanne a face,	iambic.penta
and stood awhile in thought .	iambic.tri
so long as men can breathe, or eyes can see,	iambic.penta
and all should cry, beware! beware!	iambic.tetra
there lives the dearest freshness deep down things;	iambic.penta
by hearts grown cold to me,	iambic.tri
who, were it proved he lies,	iambic.tri
with a foul witch	chol.iamb
of earth—and with what motion moved the clouds!	iambic.penta
and this is why i sojourn here	iambic.tetra
"""doth god exact day-labor, light denied?"""	iambic.penta
it will flame out, like shining from shook foil;	iambic.penta
so fair a fancy few would weave	iambic.tetra
as those move easiest who have learn'd to dance.	iambic.penta
consumed with that which it was nourished by.	iambic.penta
all mimsy were the borogoves,	iambic.tetra
dare its deadly terrors clasp?	iambic.tetra
to warm the frozen swamp as best it could	iambic.penta
from the fountain and the caves.	iambic.tetra
has woven a winter robe,	iambic.tri
woman much missed, how you call to me, call to me,	chol.iamb
which through the web of being blindly wove	iambic.penta
do they call vertue there ungratefulnesse?	iambic.penta
yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve,	iambic.penta
she cries at them for carelessness	iambic.tetra
the tables over and the wines, and slew	iambic.penta
the massy earth and sphered skies are riven!	iambic.penta
soft is the strain when zephyr gently blows,	iambic.penta
that brave vibration each way free,	iambic.tetra
it best agrees with night. come, civil night,	iambic.penta
rolled round in earth's diurnal course,	iambic.tetra
prompt hand and headpiece clever,	iambic.tri
of birth can quench not, that sustaining love	iambic.penta
rose a fresh fountain, and with many a rill	iambic.penta
the world is charged with the grandeur of god.	iambic.penta
with mis chievous, vagrant, seraphic look,	iambic.tetra
she found me roots of relish sweet,	iambic.tetra
about his shadowy sides: above him swell	iambic.penta
of night and light and the half-light,	iambic.tetra
to the chamber where	chol.iamb
nor ever ask her what she has lost	iambic.tetra
the smalle rayne downe can rayne	other
the sweet keen smell,	iambic.di
down the steep glade, and met the nether flood,	iambic.penta
where no storms come,	iambic.di
i reade it in thy lookes, thy languisht grace,	iambic.penta
for thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings	iambic.penta
arise from their graves and aspire,	chol.iamb
rough winds do shake the darling buds of may,	iambic.penta
nor shall death brag thou wand'rest in his shade,	iambic.penta
in what distant deeps or skies	iambic.tetra
there hath he lain for ages and will lie	iambic.penta
and blue spurt of a lighted match,	iambic.tetra
then ev'n of fellowship, o moone, tell me	iambic.penta
burnt the fire of thine eyes?	iambic.tetra
slow spondee stalks; strong foot! yet ill able	other
the brain is deeper than the sea--	iambic.tetra
like the fairest, for it folds thee	troch.tetra
my sweetest lesbia, let us live and love,	iambic.penta
half sunk, a shattered visage lies, whose frown,	iambic.penta
to the earnest love that laid the swale in rows,	iambic.penta
and, like this insubstantial pageant faded,	iambic.penta
what was it it whispered?  i knew not well myself;	iambic.penta
where i may sit and see	iambic.tri
to doubt they were kneeling then.	iambic.tri
like melting snow upon some craggy hill,	iambic.penta
on the cold hill's side.	iambic.di
when, in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes,	iambic.penta
and each slow dusk a drawing-down of blinds.	iambic.penta
fall, winter, fall; for he,	iambic.tri
and so live ever--or else swoon to death.	iambic.penta
are with me from the past;	iambic.tri
that all the world will be in love with night	iambic.penta
to the earnest love that laid the swale in rows,	iambic.penta
now lending splendour, where from secret springs	iambic.penta
nor in his neighbours' eyes?	iambic.tri
these latter about to fall. i thought that only	iambic.penta
of night and light and the half-light,	iambic.tetra
with how sad steps, o moone, thou climb'st the skies,	iambic.penta
what candles may be held to speed them all?	iambic.penta
them to know them gone.	iambic.di
my long scythe whispered and leftthe hay to make.	iambic.penta
beside the springs of dove,	iambic.tri
be secret and exult,	iambic.tri
the night is freezing fast,	iambic.tri
to fields where flies no sharp and sided hail	iambic.penta
and that was my long scythe whispering to the ground.	iambic.penta
with ease-- and you--beside--	iambic.tri
and though the last lights off the black west went	iambic.penta
he took his vorpal sword in hand:	iambic.tetra
played for a pair of stainless maidenhoods.	iambic.penta
southward through eden went a river large,	iambic.penta
something, perhaps, about, the lack of sound --	iambic.penta
o dream how sweet, too sweet, too bitter-sweet,	iambic.penta
what's that but to lie	chol.iamb
your force to break, blow, burn, and make me new.	iambic.penta
o how that glittering taketh me!	iambic.tetra
the brain--is wider than the sky	iambic.tetra
sure, if that long with love acquainted eyes	iambic.penta
and there repose. a turn or two i'll walk	iambic.penta
high there, how he rung upon the rein of a wimpling wing	iambic.penta
with equanimity.	iambic.tri
and so live ever--or else swoon to death.	iambic.penta
and leave it there far from a useful fireplace	iambic.penta
that thus so cleanly i myself can free;	iambic.penta
flows through the mind, and rolls its rapid waves,	iambic.penta
no motion has she now, no force;	iambic.tetra
death's second self, that seals up all in rest.	iambic.penta
and all who heard should see them there,	iambic.tetra
to strike him, overbalancing his bulk,	iambic.penta
"and say, ""would god it came to pass"	iambic.tetra
hoping it might be so.	iambic.tri
the fire for which all thirst; now beams on me,	iambic.penta
but thy eternal summer shall not fade,	iambic.penta
o rose, thou art sick!	chol.iamb
come in the speaking silence of a dream;	iambic.penta
be it not seen in either of our brows	iambic.penta
extremes to touch, and mean one thing.	iambic.tetra
nothing beside remains. round the decay	iambic.penta
as syllable from sound--	iambic.tri
with equanimity.	iambic.tri
and i yn my bed agayne	other
"""now they are all on their knees,"""	iambic.tri
the source of human thought its tribute brings	iambic.penta
my name is ozymandias, king of kings:	iambic.penta
what dread hand? & what dread feet?	iambic.tetra
sat gray-hair'd saturn quiet as a stone,	iambic.penta
pleased if some souls (for such there needs must be)	iambic.penta
and close your eyes with holy dread,	iambic.tetra
the lone and level sands stretch far away.	iambic.penta
thy grace may wing me to prevent his art,	iambic.penta
come to my arms, my beamish boy!	iambic.tetra
that bellies and drags in the wind,	iambic.tri
"""beware the jabberwock, my son!"	iambic.tetra
by man and beast and earth and air and sea,	iambic.penta
then, now,--perchance again!	iambic.tri
with kisses four.	iambic.di
my true account, lest he returning chide;	iambic.penta
but time to make me grieve,	iambic.tri
floated midway on the waves;	iambic.tetra
long lines of cliff breaking have left a chasm;	iambic.penta
shall i compare thee to a summer's day?	iambic.penta
i reade it in thy lookes, thy languisht grace,	iambic.penta
is rounded with a sleep. sir, i am vexed.	iambic.penta
whenas in silks my julia goes,	iambic.tetra
down to a sunless sea.	iambic.tri
next, when i cast mine eyes and see	iambic.tetra
who plainly say, my god, my king.	iambic.tetra
he is not here; but far away	iambic.tetra
and arthur deigned not use of word or sword,	iambic.penta
its dim shapes are clad with brightness	troch.tetra
and students with their pensive citadels;	iambic.penta
who have felt the weight of too much liberty,	iambic.penta
the brain is just the weight of god--	iambic.tetra
who have felt the weight of too much liberty,	iambic.penta
battening upon huge seaworms in his sleep,	iambic.penta
and out of the swing of the sea.	iambic.tri
she seemed a thing that could not feel	iambic.tetra
and with sweet pastimes grace my happy tomb;	iambic.penta
an elder said as we sat in a flock	iambic.tetra
nuns fret not at their convent's narrow room,	iambic.penta
as i gain the cove with pushing prow,	iambic.tetra
still as the silence round about his lair;	iambic.penta
wishing me like to one more rich in hope ,	iambic.penta
full fathom five thy father lies;	iambic.tetra
the vorpal blade went snicker-snack!	iambic.tetra
weave a circle round him thrice,	iambic.tetra
in the forests of the night,	iambic.tetra
thou sober-suited matron all in black,	iambic.penta
a mighty fountain momently was forced:	iambic.penta
and the harvest's done.	iambic.di
but is captived, and proves weak or untrue.	iambic.penta
rolling on orient pearl and sands of gold,	iambic.penta
i must stop short of thee the whole day long.	iambic.penta
nor shall death brag thou wand'rest in his shade,	iambic.penta
so that i fear they do but bring	iambic.tetra
as phaeton would whip you to the west	iambic.penta
despair behind and death before doth cast	iambic.penta
embark his royalty; and his brave fleet	iambic.penta
above the raven's nest, by knots of grass	iambic.penta
over the land freckled with snow half-thawed	iambic.penta
could twist the sinews of thy heart?	iambic.tetra
but just when at that swallow's soar	iambic.tetra
in roaring he shall rise and on the surface die.	alexandr.iambic.hexa
the white one in his tail; like one who takes	iambic.penta
the source of human thought its tribute brings	iambic.penta
one, two! one, two! and through and through	iambic.tetra
the one the other will absorb--	iambic.tetra
the jabberwock, with eyes of flame,	iambic.tetra
of pure ablution round earth's human shores,	iambic.penta
and then there was a pile of wood for which	iambic.penta
there was never a sound beside the wood but one,	iambic.penta
who countest the steps of the sun,	chol.iamb
give me the lowest place: not that i dare	iambic.penta
and half-inch fissures in the slippery rock	iambic.penta
"our childhood used to know,"""	iambic.tri
by hearts grown cold to me,	iambic.tri
to love that well which thou must leave ere long.	iambic.penta
but fools do live and waste their little light,	iambic.penta
i would spread the cloths under your feet:	iambic.tetra
and wears the turning globe.	iambic.tri
which by and by black night doth take away,	iambic.penta
let maps to others, worlds on worlds have shown,	iambic.penta
who said: two vast and trunkless legs of stone	iambic.penta
give me the lowest place: or if for me	iambic.penta
so wild that every casual thought of that and this	alexandr.iambic.hexa
but i, being poor, have only my dreams;	iambic.tetra
what passing-bells for these who die as cattle?	iambic.penta
when, his pulse failing, passion speechless lies,	iambic.penta
that time of year thou mayst in me behold	iambic.penta
fair are others; none beholds thee,	troch.tetra
do they above love to be lov'd, and yet	iambic.penta
with the hot blood of youth, of love crossed long ago;	alexandr.iambic.hexa
soft is the strain when zephyr gently blows,	iambic.penta
blow, winds, and crack your cheeks. rage, blow.	iambic.penta
she neither hears nor sees;	iambic.tri
a stately pleasure dome decree:	iambic.tetra
where no storms come,	iambic.di
and there i shut her wild, wild eyes	iambic.tetra
in me thou seest the glowing of such fire,	iambic.penta
i caught this morning morning's minion, king-	iambic.penta
may read in thee;	iambic.di
can patter out their hasty orisons.	iambic.penta
"now they are all on their knees,"""	iambic.tri
i, like an usurped town, to another due,	iambic.penta
and i am glad, yea glad with all my heart	iambic.penta
about her lover.	iambic.di
with rocks and stones and trees.	iambic.tri
that benediction which the eclipsing curse	iambic.penta
but it must never, never come in sight;	iambic.penta
sometimes too hot the eye of heaven shines,	iambic.penta
let not my hearse be vexed with mourning friends,	iambic.penta
o memory, hope and love of finished years.	iambic.penta
even such is time, which takes in trust	iambic.tetra
the world is charged with the grandeur of god.	iambic.penta
as if this earth in fast thick pants were breathing,	iambic.penta
and that was why it whispered and did not speak.	iambic.penta
will murmur by the hour in foxglove bells:	iambic.penta
leaves around me falling,	other
bear his mild yoke, they serve him best. his state	iambic.penta
and chiefly i remember	iambic.tri
by chance or nature's changing course untrimmed;	iambic.penta
and winter falls of old	iambic.tri
with horrid warning gapèd wide,	iambic.tetra
whitening for half a league, and thin themselves,	iambic.penta
it will flame out, like shining from shook foil;	iambic.penta
when you had changed from the one who was all to me,	chol.iamb
the squirrel's granary is full,	iambic.tetra
those lovers scorne whom that love doth possesse?	iambic.penta
leave not a rack behind. we are such stuff	iambic.penta
he left it dead, and with its head	iambic.tetra
into something rich and strange.	iambic.tetra
his overcoat for ever,	iambic.tri
where alph, the sacred river, ran	iambic.tetra
in the lonely barton by yonder coomb	iambic.tetra
nor did it occur to one of us there	iambic.tetra
is kingly. thousands at his bidding speed	iambic.penta
the common fate of all things rare	iambic.tetra
come back to me in dreams, that i may give	iambic.penta
nature i loved, and, next to nature, art:	iambic.penta
give me the lowest place: not that i dare	iambic.penta
where thirsting longing eyes	iambic.tri
and drunk the milk of paradise.	iambic.tetra
it sinks; and i am ready to depart.	iambic.penta
where was heard the mingled measure	iambic.tetra
come to me in the silence of the night;	iambic.penta
give me my romeo; and, when he shall die,	iambic.penta
the latest dream i ever dreamed	iambic.tetra
green in a cuplike hollow of the down.	iambic.penta
you being ever dissolved to wan wistlessness,	chol.iamb
from less and less to nothing; thus he fell	iambic.penta
to feel for ever its soft fall and swell,	iambic.penta
and view my wasting skin,	iambic.tri
and after, drained dry,	chol.iamb
sometimes too hot the eye of heaven shines,	iambic.penta
their flowers the tenderness of patient minds,	iambic.penta
faints, entangled in their mazes.	troch.tetra
ourselves no prison is:and hence for me,	iambic.penta
batter my heart, three-personed god; for you	iambic.penta
such terror, and my feeble flesh doth waste	iambic.penta
beware the jubjub bird, and shun	iambic.tetra
with other things i but fear	iambic.tri
they never say a word to her	iambic.tetra
but i, being poor, have only my dreams;	iambic.tetra
wind oozing thin through the thorn from norward,	troch.tetra
but thy eternal summer shall not fade,	iambic.penta
winnow with giant arms the slumbering green.	iambic.penta
fall grief in showers;	iambic.di
and high in heaven behind it a gray down	iambic.penta
they dwelt in their strawy pen,	iambic.tri
one flight out sideways would have undeceived him.	iambic.penta
thus for love's sake,	iambic.di
and shouted and leapt down upon the fallen;	iambic.penta
i had no human fears:	iambic.tri
whiter than new snow upon a raven's back.	iambic.penta
or chaffy grain beneath the thresher's flail:	iambic.penta
and, like the baseless fabric of this vision,	iambic.penta
do they call vertue there ungratefulnesse?	iambic.penta
to still my beating mind.	iambic.tri
sure, if that long with love acquainted eyes	iambic.penta
holding due course to harfleur. follow, follow!	iambic.penta
and sank in tumult to a lifeless ocean:	iambic.penta
in the forests of the night,	iambic.tetra
where springs not fail,	iambic.di
'tis not enough no harshness gives offence,	iambic.penta
what if some little paine the passage haue,	iambic.penta
drops flat, and after the great waters break	iambic.penta
they leave us so to the way we took,	iambic.tetra
may kill as soon as death's cold hand;	iambic.tetra
how at once should i know	iambic.tri
are with me from the past;	iambic.tri
and crown with love my ever-during night.	iambic.penta
that opening, letting in, lets out no more.	iambic.penta
huge fragments vaulted like rebounding hail,	iambic.penta
yet she has fancied blackbirds hide	iambic.tetra
travelling across the wet mead to me here,	chol.iamb
and made sweet moan.	iambic.di
that then i scorn to change my state with kings.	iambic.penta
hark! now i hear them: ding-dong, bell.	iambic.tetra
to serve therewith my maker, and present	iambic.penta
the smalle rayne downe can rayne	iambic.tri
"o frabjous day! callooh! callay!"""	iambic.tetra
when i consider how my light is spent	iambic.penta
head-heavy; then the knights, who watched him, roared	iambic.penta
the hoarse, rough verse shou'd like the torrent roar.	iambic.penta
let him combat for that of his neighbours;	chol.iamb
and layes the soule to sleepe in quiet graue?	iambic.penta
play with your fancies, and in them behold	iambic.penta
from long to long in solemn sort.	iambic.tetra
nature i loved, and, next to nature, art:	iambic.penta
from many a wondrous grot and secret cell	iambic.penta
and when thy heart began to beat,	iambic.tetra
robs not one light seed from the feather'd grass,	iambic.penta
are beauties there as proud as here they be?	iambic.penta
toil and grow rich,	chol.iamb
that liquefaction of her clothes.	iambic.tetra
this thou perceiv'st, which makes thy love more strong,	iambic.penta
shake hands forever, cancel all our vows,	iambic.penta
and wears man's smudge and share's man's smell: the soil	iambic.penta
pale warriors, death-pale were they all;	iambic.tetra
and 'mid these dancing rocks, at once and ever	iambic.penta
do they above love to be lov'd, and yet	iambic.penta
that seemed as though ice burned and was but the more ice,	alexandr.iambic.hexa
repair me now, for now mine end doth haste;	iambic.penta
some veil did fall,--i knew it all of yore.	iambic.penta
in what furnace was thy brain?	iambic.tetra
pulse for pulse, breath for breath:	iambic.tri
in me thou seest the twilight of such day	iambic.penta
is constant love deem'd there but want of wit?	iambic.penta
those are pearls that were his eyes:	iambic.tetra
over and over.	iambic.di
so wildthat every casual thought of that and this	alexandr.iambic.hexa
and i awoke and found me here	iambic.tetra
and say no word to tell me who he was	iambic.penta
yet slower, yet, o faintly, gentle springs!	iambic.penta
o memory, hope and love of finished years.	iambic.penta
on the cold hill's side.	iambic.di
doors, where my heart was used to beat	iambic.tetra
awake for ever in a sweet unrest,	iambic.penta
where waterfalls around it leap for ever,	iambic.penta
must all be veiled, while he that reads, divines,	iambic.penta
he gazed and gazed and gazed and gazed,	iambic.tetra
you have been mine before,--	iambic.tri
he went behind it to make his last stand.	iambic.penta
that liquefaction of her clothes.	iambic.tetra
to do good to mankind is the chivalrous plan,	chol.iamb
did gyre and gimble in the wabe;	iambic.tetra
is all good structure in a winding stair?	iambic.penta
like nature's patient, sleepless eremite,	iambic.penta
all mimsy were the borogoves,	iambic.tetra
the breath whose might i have invoked in song	iambic.penta
and as in uffish thought he stood,	iambic.tetra
can judge of love, thou feel'st a lover's case;	iambic.penta
oh, just beyond the sweetest thoughts that throng	iambic.penta
i shun the love that lurks in all delight--	iambic.penta
and no birds sing.	iambic.di
that lowest place too high, make one more low	iambic.penta
and on thy cheeks a fading rose	iambic.tetra
no runner tracks in this year's snow looped near it.	iambic.penta
by a flash of lightning, or a wave;	iambic.tetra
or somewhere else: i was just far from home.	iambic.penta
over its rocks ceaselessly bursts and raves.	iambic.penta
when ajax strives some rock's vast weight to throw,	iambic.penta
i warm'd both hands before the fire of life;	iambic.penta
that busie archer his sharpe arrowes tries?	iambic.penta
and thereupon imagination and heartwere driven	alexandr.iambic.hexa
that we one jot of former love retain.	iambic.penta
alone and palely loitering,	iambic.tetra
for so appears this fleet majestical,	iambic.penta
tell her that's young	iambic.di
come to me in the silence of the night;	iambic.penta
and all the pavement streamed with massacre.	iambic.penta
everything said as personal to himself.	iambic.penta
thou art more love ly and more temperate:	iambic.penta
had in high places built her lodge; though mean	iambic.penta
for then, i, undistrest	iambic.tri
he took his vorpal sword in hand:	iambic.tetra
if all would lead their lives in love like me,	iambic.penta
by their own beauties; or, if love be blind,	iambic.penta
that lowest place too high, make one more low	iambic.penta
you sulph'rous and thought-executing fires,	iambic.penta
will murmur by the hour in foxglove bells:	iambic.penta
and now divided into four main streams,	iambic.penta
and his dark secret love	chol.iamb
vaunt-couriers of oak-cleaving thunderbolts,	iambic.penta
yet i have heard they both bear darts,	iambic.tetra
breasting the lofty surge. o, do but think	iambic.penta
strike flat the thick rotundity of the world,	iambic.penta
and shakes this fragile frame at eve	iambic.tetra
tell that its sculptor well those passions read	iambic.penta
when, in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes,	iambic.penta
and all is seared with trade; bleared, smeared with toil;	iambic.penta
and i have asked to be	iambic.tri
and on her dulcimer she played,	iambic.tetra
amazed, amazed, amazed, amazed.	iambic.tetra
who in the dark and silent grave	iambic.tetra
my god and love thee so.	iambic.tri
a hand that can be clasped no more-	iambic.tetra
with mazy error under pendant shades	iambic.penta
but sucked on country pleasures, childishly?	iambic.penta
be secret and take defeat	iambic.tri
how from that sapphire fount the crisped brooks,	iambic.penta
flow'rs worthy of paradise, which not nice art	iambic.penta
moved we as plunderers where the mother bird	iambic.penta
woe weeps out her division when she sings.	iambic.penta
spreading a shade: the naiad mid her reeds	iambic.penta
now at the last gasp of love's latest breath	iambic.penta
and sudden arbors shadow coarse-spun lines?	iambic.penta
desiring this man's art and that man's scope,	iambic.penta
all mimsy were the borogoves,	iambic.tetra
with what strange utterance did the loud dry wind	iambic.penta
that liquefaction of her clothes.	iambic.tetra
in these years!  yet, i feel,	iambic.tri
he watches from his mountain walls,	iambic.tetra
and a voice less loud, thro' its joys and fears,	iambic.tetra
or gazing on the new soft-fallen mask	iambic.penta
he left it dead, and with its head	iambic.tetra
where you would wait for me: yes, as i knew you then,	chol.iamb
then, then (methinks) how sweetly flows	iambic.tetra
the moving waters at their priestlike task	iambic.penta
and happie ease, which thou doest want and craue,	iambic.penta
out walking in the frozen swamp one gray day,	iambic.penta
sea nymphs hourly ring his knell:	iambic.tetra
love, laughter, or mourning--remembrance of rapture or fear--	chol.iamb
is constant love deem'd there but want of wit?	iambic.penta
to be brought	other
than the two hearts beating each to each!	iambic.tetra
how dick would hate the cold.	iambic.tri
let us not weigh them. heaven's great lamps do dive	iambic.penta
deep in the shady sadness of a vale	iambic.penta
thou must have uncommended died.	iambic.tetra
in cluster; then a mouldered church; and higher	iambic.penta
awake for ever in a sweet unrest,	iambic.penta
water'd the garden; thence united fell	iambic.penta
in beds and curious knots, but nature boon	iambic.penta
suddenly i saw the coldand rook-delighting heaven	alexandr.iambic.hexa
the hand that mocked them, and the heart that fed:	iambic.penta
i am borne darkly, fearfully, afar;	iambic.penta
when,  his pulse failing,  passion speechless lies,	iambic.penta
if you be pleased, retire into my cell	iambic.penta
and seek with pain their ever-during night.	iambic.penta
she dotes on what the wild birds say	iambic.tetra
five miles meandering with a mazy motion	iambic.penta
when yellow leaves, or none, or few, do hang	iambic.penta
that we sit sometimes in the wayside nook,	iambic.tetra
